README.md, before:

# Libwifi

[![GitHub Actions Workflow](https://github.com/Nukesor/libwifi/workflows/Tests/badge.svg)](https://github.com/Nukesor/libwifi/actions)
[![docs](https://docs.rs/libwifi/badge.svg)](https://docs.rs/libwifi/)
[![license](http://img.shields.io/badge/license-MIT-blue.svg)](https://github.com/nukesor/libwifi/blob/master/LICENSE)
[![Crates.io](https://img.shields.io/crates/v/libwifi.svg)](https://crates.io/crates/libwifi)
<!--- [![codecov](https://codecov.io/gh/nukesor/libwifi/branch/master/graph/badge.svg)](https://codecov.io/gh/nukesor/libwifi) -->

First of all, this library is designed to be easily extendable. \
There's an architectural/contribution guide in `docs/Frame.md` and pull requests are highly welcome.

Covering the whole spectrum of possible 802.11 frames or all different implementations of wifi tools out there is an impossible task for a single person, let's try to tackle this together!

### What is Libwifi

The first goal of `libwifi` is to provide a **convenient** way of parsing raw IEEE 802.11 frames!

The emphasis is on **convenient**, since this library doesn't focus on providing a ultra high-performance implementation. The focus is rather on providing an easy-to-use API. \
This includes consistent and intuitive structs representing the structure of a given frame. \
However, this doesn't mean that this library [isn't quite fast anyway ;)](https://github.com/Nukesor/libwifi#performance).

The second goal is to provide an unified API to:
1. query information about your wifi interfaces (iwlist equivalent).
2. set attributes and configure your wifi interfaces (iwconfig equivalent).

As a prototype it's planned to call and parse existing binaries.
However, a native re-implementation of those tools is desired in a long-term manner. \
For instance, the [wireless-tools](https://github.com/HewlettPackard/wireless-tools) are a great C-library with a lot of documentation and very will structured code.
This could be used as a guide-line for re-implementation.


### How to use it

Parsing a frame is fairly straight forward:

```
use libwifi::parse_frame;

let bytes = [
    180, 0, // FrameControl
    158, 0, // Duration
    116, 66, 127, 77, 29, 45, // First Address
    20, 125, 218, 170, 84, 81, // Second Address
];

match libwifi::parse_frame(&bytes) {
    Ok(frame) => {
        println!("Got frame: {:?}", frame);
    }
    Err(err) => {
        println!("Error during parsing :\n{}", err);
    }
};
```

A full example on how to capture, process and parse wifi traffic can be found in the `examples` directory.

### Performance

There are a few benches in the `benches` folder.

1. Install `cargo-criterion` by calling `cargo install cargo-criterion`.
2. Run the benchmarks with `cargo criterion`.

Right now, parsing a `Beacon` frame, which is one of the more complex frames, takes `~1 µs` on a i7-8550U. \
Parsing a `Data` frame takes `~84 ns`.

If we take this as a rough guideline, you can roughly expect a million frames per second.

**Disclaimer:** This will most likely become slower, as more missing features/parsers will be added to the library.
    Anyhow, I don't expect this to drop below 100k frames/s.

### Roadmap and TODOs

**Parser and Frames**

- [ ] Implement basic parsers for all frame subtypes.
- [ ] Add specialized parsers for fields that are currently generically handled by the `StationInfo` struct.
- [ ] Handle all edge-cases (there are a lot and I'll need help!)

**Interface handling**

I would love to add proper interface handling to the library.
This includes features to:

- [ ] Switch modes
- [ ] Switch channels
- [ ] Discover available channels


### Implementation status

- Management Frames
    - [x] AssociationRequest,
    - [x] AssociationResponse,
    - [ ] ReassociationRequest,
    - [ ] ReassociationResponse,
    - [x] ProbeRequest,
    - [x] ProbeResponse,
    - [ ] TimingAdvertisement,
    - [x] Beacon,
    - [ ] Atim,
    - [ ] Disassociation,
    - [ ] Authentication,
    - [ ] Deauthentication,
    - [ ] Action,
    - [ ] ActionNoAck,
- Control Frames
    - [ ] Trigger,
    - [ ] Tack,
    - [ ] BeamformingReportPoll,
    - [ ] NdpAnnouncement,
    - [ ] ControlFrameExtension,
    - [ ] ControlWrapper,
    - [x] BlockAckRequest,
    - [x] BlockAck,
    - [ ] PsPoll,
    - [x] Rts,
    - [x] Cts,
    - [x] Ack,
    - [ ] CfEnd,
    - [ ] CfEndCfAck,
- Data Frames
    - [x] Data,
    - [ ] DataCfAck,
    - [ ] DataCfPoll,
    - [ ] DataCfAckCfPoll,
    - [x] NullData,
    - [ ] CfAck,
    - [ ] CfPoll,
    - [ ] CfAckCfPoll,
    - [ ] QosData,
    - [ ] QosDataCfAck,
    - [ ] QosDataCfPoll,
    - [ ] QosDataCfAckCfPoll,
    - [x] QosNull,
    - [ ] QosCfPoll,
    - [ ] QosCfAckCfPoll,
- Frame Components
    - [x] Frame Control
    - [x] Sequence Control
    - [x] Management Header
    - [x] Dynamic Management Header fields
        - [x] SSID
        - [x] Supported rates
        - [x] Generic extraction of remaining fields
        - [ ] All other fields
    - [x] Data Header
    - [x] QoS Data Header
        - [ ] The QoS flags must still be properly parsed


There's a lot more to the IEE 802.11 spec and a lot of stuff needs to be done. \
If you find that something you need is missing, consider creating a ticket and contributing :).

### Nightly

This library requires nightly for now!

It uses the `destructuring_assignment` feature, which adds a lot of convenience when working with the `nom` library. \

If you want to start using it in a professional environment, I'm open to PRs that refactor the usages of this feature.
Shouldn't take longer than a few minutes to do. \
Until then, I'm hoping that this feature will be included to stable soon :).

Commit message:

Add project status to README

README.md, after:

# Libwifi

[![GitHub Actions Workflow](https://github.com/Nukesor/libwifi/workflows/Tests/badge.svg)](https://github.com/Nukesor/libwifi/actions)
[![docs](https://docs.rs/libwifi/badge.svg)](https://docs.rs/libwifi/)
[![license](http://img.shields.io/badge/license-MIT-blue.svg)](https://github.com/nukesor/libwifi/blob/master/LICENSE)
[![Crates.io](https://img.shields.io/crates/v/libwifi.svg)](https://crates.io/crates/libwifi)
<!--- [![codecov](https://codecov.io/gh/nukesor/libwifi/branch/master/graph/badge.svg)](https://codecov.io/gh/nukesor/libwifi) -->

First of all, this library is designed to be easily extendable. \
There's an architectural/contribution guide in `docs/Frame.md` and pull requests are highly welcome.

Covering the whole spectrum of possible 802.11 frames or all different implementations of wifi tools out there is an impossible task for a single person, let's try to tackle this together!

### What is Libwifi

The first goal of `libwifi` is to provide a **convenient** way of parsing raw IEEE 802.11 frames!

The emphasis is on **convenient**, since this library doesn't focus on providing a ultra high-performance implementation. The focus is rather on providing an easy-to-use API. \
This includes consistent and intuitive structs representing the structure of a given frame. \
However, this doesn't mean that this library [isn't quite fast anyway ;)](https://github.com/Nukesor/libwifi#performance).

The second goal is to provide an unified API to:
1. query information about your wifi interfaces (iwlist equivalent).
2. set attributes and configure your wifi interfaces (iwconfig equivalent).

As a prototype it's planned to call and parse existing binaries.
However, a native re-implementation of those tools is desired in a long-term manner. \
For instance, the [wireless-tools](https://github.com/HewlettPackard/wireless-tools) are a great C-library with a lot of documentation and very will structured code.
This could be used as a guide-line for re-implementation.


The project is still under heavy development, and a lot of features are missing, but it should be a good foundation for a proper wifi library :).

### How to use it

Parsing a frame is fairly straight forward:

```
use libwifi::parse_frame;

let bytes = [
    180, 0, // FrameControl
    158, 0, // Duration
    116, 66, 127, 77, 29, 45, // First Address
    20, 125, 218, 170, 84, 81, // Second Address
];

match libwifi::parse_frame(&bytes) {
    Ok(frame) => {
        println!("Got frame: {:?}", frame);
    }
    Err(err) => {
        println!("Error during parsing :\n{}", err);
    }
};
```

A full example on how to capture, process and parse wifi traffic can be found in the `examples` directory.

### Performance

There are a few benches in the `benches` folder.

1. Install `cargo-criterion` by calling `cargo install cargo-criterion`.
2. Run the benchmarks with `cargo criterion`.

Right now, parsing a `Beacon` frame, which is one of the more complex frames, takes `~1 µs` on a i7-8550U. \
Parsing a `Data` frame takes `~84 ns`.

If we take this as a rough guideline, you can roughly expect a million frames per second.

**Disclaimer:** This will most likely become slower, as more missing features/parsers will be added to the library.
    Anyhow, I don't expect this to drop below 100k frames/s.

### Roadmap and TODOs

**Parser and Frames**

- [ ] Implement basic parsers for all frame subtypes.
- [ ] Add specialized parsers for fields that are currently generically handled by the `StationInfo` struct.
- [ ] Handle all edge-cases (there are a lot and I'll need help!)

**Interface handling**

I would love to add proper interface handling to the library.
This includes features to:

- [ ] Switch modes
- [ ] Switch channels
- [ ] Discover available channels


### Implementation status

- Management Frames
    - [x] AssociationRequest,
    - [x] AssociationResponse,
    - [ ] ReassociationRequest,
    - [ ] ReassociationResponse,
    - [x] ProbeRequest,
    - [x] ProbeResponse,
    - [ ] TimingAdvertisement,
    - [x] Beacon,
    - [ ] Atim,
    - [ ] Disassociation,
    - [ ] Authentication,
    - [ ] Deauthentication,
    - [ ] Action,
    - [ ] ActionNoAck,
- Control Frames
    - [ ] Trigger,
    - [ ] Tack,
    - [ ] BeamformingReportPoll,
    - [ ] NdpAnnouncement,
    - [ ] ControlFrameExtension,
    - [ ] ControlWrapper,
    - [x] BlockAckRequest,
    - [x] BlockAck,
    - [ ] PsPoll,
    - [x] Rts,
    - [x] Cts,
    - [x] Ack,
    - [ ] CfEnd,
    - [ ] CfEndCfAck,
- Data Frames
    - [x] Data,
    - [ ] DataCfAck,
    - [ ] DataCfPoll,
    - [ ] DataCfAckCfPoll,
    - [x] NullData,
    - [ ] CfAck,
    - [ ] CfPoll,
    - [ ] CfAckCfPoll,
    - [ ] QosData,
    - [ ] QosDataCfAck,
    - [ ] QosDataCfPoll,
    - [ ] QosDataCfAckCfPoll,
    - [x] QosNull,
    - [ ] QosCfPoll,
    - [ ] QosCfAckCfPoll,
- Frame Components
    - [x] Frame Control
    - [x] Sequence Control
    - [x] Management Header
    - [x] Dynamic Management Header fields
        - [x] SSID
        - [x] Supported rates
        - [x] Generic extraction of remaining fields
        - [ ] All other fields
    - [x] Data Header
    - [x] QoS Data Header
        - [ ] The QoS flags must still be properly parsed


There's a lot more to the IEE 802.11 spec and a lot of stuff needs to be done. \
If you find that something you need is missing, consider creating a ticket and contributing :).

### Nightly

This library requires nightly for now!

It uses the `destructuring_assignment` feature, which adds a lot of convenience when working with the `nom` library. \

If you want to start using it in a professional environment, I'm open to PRs that refactor the usages of this feature.
Shouldn't take longer than a few minutes to do. \
Until then, I'm hoping that this feature will be included to stable soon :).
